.\" Local Variables: .\" mode: nroff .\" End:
.\" TITLE
.TH PMDC 8 "Thu Mar 21 18:40:10 UTC 2013" "Manpage for pmdc version 1.0.0"
.SH NAME
pmdc \- A script that concurrently scans multiple filesystems for files with frame-like names
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY pmdc
.OP \-e extension
.OP \-o output
.OP \-i internal communication filename
.OP \-p protocol ('dcfs', 'ldas', 'pmdc').
.OP \-r concurrency
cache_namespace dir0 [dir1... dirn]
.
.
.SY pmdc
.OP \-s status
cache_namespace
.
.
.SY pmdc
.OP \-h
| 
.OP \-\-help
.
.
.SY pmdc
.OP \-v
| 
.OP \-\-version
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e EXTENSION
.TQ
.BI \-\-extension\  EXTENSION 
[[]] Scan for files ending with ".EXTENSION". Passing "--extension
gwf" is equivalent to not passing an extension flag. Use multiple
times for multiple extensions. The dot is not part of EXTENSION, do
not include it.
.
.
.TP
.BI \-o OUTPUT
.TQ
.BI \-\-output\  OUTPUT
[-] Name of file to write diskcache output to. Use '-' for stdout. If
a filename is provided, then the write operation is guaranteed to be
atomic (so that manual manipulation of temporary files is not
required). This flag only applies if used in conjuction with -p flag.
.
.
.TP
.BI \-i IPC_FILE
.TQ 
.BI \-\-ipc-file\  IPC_FILE
[None] Name of file for internal process communication. If used, then
directory list must have length 1.  Regular users do not need to use
this flag.
.
.
.TP
.BI \-p PROTOCOL
.TQ
.BI \-\-protocol\  PROTOCOL
[None] Protocol of output to write. Choose from
('dcfs', 'ldas', 'pmdc'). Use 'ldas' for compatibility with
ldas-tools. Use 'pmdc' for an extended protocol that includes file
extension information. Formats 'ldas' and 'pmdc' are plain text and
results are sorted. 'dcfs' is a format useful for the diskcache
filesystem.
.
.
.TP
.BI \-r CONCURRENCY
.TQ 
.BI \-\-concurrency\  CONCURRENCY
[5] Maximum number of concurrent scan processes. Only applicable if
more than 1 directory is passed as a positional argument.
.
.
.TP
.BI \-s
.TQ 
.BI \-\-status
Print some info about 
.I cache_namespace 
and exit.
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This document describes
.BR pmdc ,
a python script that scans multiple filesystems for files whose names
follow the naming convention
.RS
.EX
site-frametype-gpsstart-dur.ext
.EE
.RE
where site, frametype and ext are strings of alphanumeric + underscore
characters and gpsstart and dur must be integers.
.
.
.P
In a typical use scenario, pmdc will cache its state in files under
.IR cache_namespace .
Subsequent calls with the same arguments typically execute a complete
scan of large filesystems much faster than the initial scan.
.
.
.P
If pmdc is called with the -o flag, it will save the results
atomicly. This means, for example, that services which read pmdc ASCII
dumps will not accidently read partially-written or incomplete files.
.
.
.P
pmdc is "cron-safe": pmdc will exit if it detects (via a lock file in the 
.I cache-namespace
)
another pmdc scan is running. See the EXAMPLES section below for an
example script executed by cron.
.
.
.P 
pmdc will spawn one process per directory, up to a maximum of
CONCURRENCY processes.  A good rule of thumb is to pass one argument
per server being scanned and to set CONCURRENCY equal to the number of
servers being scanned.
.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.
.
The job executed by cron at UWM follows.
.RS
.EX
#!/bin/sh
set -e
BIN=/usr/sbin/pmdc
DIR=/var/lib/dc
BASENAME=${DIR}/pmdc
CACHE=${BASENAME}.cache
MOUNT_POINTS=`ls -d /nfsdata/x4500-[3-9]/  /nfsdata/x4500-1[0-9]`
OPTS="--concurrency 11 -e gwf -e sft -p ldas -o ${BASENAME}.txt"

${BIN} ${CACHE} ${MOUNT_POINTS} ${OPTS}
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SH FILES
.P
.TP
.B /var/lib/dc 
This is the strongly-suggested location for cache files.
.
.
.SH BUGS
None known.
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
Jeffery Kline (jeffery.kline@gravity.phys.uwm.edu)

